 The Battle of the Nile. Two naval officers were disputing as to the importance of Lord Nelson's victories. They wereunable to agree in opin

 The Latter. Days of Bonaparte. At the close of the year 1820, Napoleon's health began to fail so as to excite the greatest apprehensions. O

 An Unrehearsed Stage Effect. A good story is told of a certain actor whose fate it was to represent the inferior personages in the drama, s

 " What's in a Name." Iremember, says an old writer,a school-fellow of mine who wasa striking instance of the inconvenience ofa remarkableCh

 The Blessing of Forgiveness. The brave only know how to forgive; it is the most refined and generous pitch of virtue human nature can arriv

 Parenthesis in Prayer. A pastor of a small congregation of dissenters in the west of Scodand, who,in prayer,often employed terms of familia

 A Piercing Eye. Miss Pope, one evening in the green-room of the theatre, expatiating in all the warmth of her early enthusiasm on the geniu

 An Americanism. An American paper says, "A neighbour of ours informs us that wood goes further when left out of doors, than when housed:— s

 The Traveller Outdone. Captain BasilHall, whose written stories have charmed all who have read them, was one day endeavouring to enliven a 

 The Vanity of Grand Funerals. The people of England are all extremely fond of expensive funerals, but this is most conspicuous in persons o

 An Awkward Objection A public-house wife entered her protest, on the occasion of an ordinationof elders, against one of the number, who, sh

 An Echo in Court. A certain chief justice, on hearing an ass bray, interrupted the late Mr. Curran, in his speech to the jury, by saying, "

 A Reason for not Attending Church. A zealous, and in his way a very eminent preacher, whose eloquence is as copious, and far more lucid tha

 Servants in the Olden Time. D"ean Ramsay records the following anecdote in his Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character :"— The charge 

 Only a Mistake of a Letter Mr. H resides in Fourth Street, New York. His wife,who is aneconomical body, had sent a costly silk gown to aFre

 An Absent Mind. A certain Scottish professor was not more remarkable for his writings on political economy, than for his frequent unconscio

 An Old Joke Re-faced. An American dramatist, observing to a friend the thinness of the house at one of the plays, added he supposed it was 

 Travel Talk. In the commercialroom of an hotel in a large town in the north, in which were assembled a number of gentlemen engaged in vario

 Bonaparte's Estimate of British Sailors. "Ihad always a high opinion of your seamen," said Napoleon one day to O'Meara, in a conversation a

 The Best Time for Marriage. The best time for marriage willbe towards thirty, for as the younger times are unfit, either to choose or to go

 A Woman for a Wife. During a visit to England, the Rev. Robert Story, of Roseneath, was urgently advised by EdwardIrving to pay his address

 A Doctor's Epitaph Doctor I. Letsome wrote the following epitaph for his own tombstone; but it is not likely that he allowed his friends, o

 The Road to Kew. Theodore Hook, in the supposedcharacter of a Gower Street undergraduate, says :"One problem was given me to work, which Id

 An American Love Story. An old gentleman, a merchant, had an only daughter, possessed of the highest attractions,moral,personal, and pecuni

 A Tough Snuff Story, Mr. Howard Paul, in an account of his trip to the United States, relates an anecdoteof the ingenious skill of the Amer

 A Tough Snuff Story, Mr. Howard Paul, in an account of his trip to the United States, relates an anecdoteof the ingenious skill of the Amer

 Salmon versus Sermon. A clergyman inPerthshire, who was more skilful as an angler than popular as a preacher, having fallen into conversati

 The Right Emphasis Dr. Guthrie, in the course of an address in theNew Free College,remarked that he was often annoyed and vexedbeyond measu

 Evil-Speaking. Men will refrain from evil-speaking when their fellowmen refrain from evil-hearing.  Unknown  

 The Advantagesof History. The villain who hasimposed on mankindby his power or cunning, and whom experience could not unmask for a time, is

 Sleep. Bulwer Lytton says— "Let youth cherish sleep, the happiest of earthlyboons, while yet it is at their command; for there cometh the d

 Talking Men and Women. Speaking much is a sign of vanity;for he thatis lavish in words is a niggardin deed.  Unknown  

 Curious Sepulture. In the burial register of Lymingtou, Hants,there is the following entry:— "12 August, 1722. This forenoon the body of Sa

 Curious Advertisement. The following advertisement appeared recently in a daily paper:— To pianoforte makers.— A lady,keeping a first-class

 Abernethy's Prescription. An Irishman calledin great hasteupon Dr. Abernethy, stating that, "Be jabers, my boy Tim has swallowed a mouse." 

 A Candid Opinion. An Ohio stumper, while making a speech, paused in the midst of it, and exclaimed, "Now, gentlemen, what do you think?" In

 Quid pro Quo. A Frenchman, meeting an English soldier with a Waterloo medal, began sneeringly to animadvert on the British Government for b

 Whitfield and the Sailors. When Whitfield preached before the seamen at New York, he used the following bold apostrophe :— "Well, my boys, 

 RowlandHill. Once when preaching at Wapping to a congregation composed chiefly of seafaring men and fisherwomen, he greatly astonished his 

 A " Savant" in the Witness Box. Occasionally— very rarely, it must be owned— the witness is, besides being a man of science, a man of the w

 Modern Fashions. We (says a New York paper) had the curiosity the other day to make a note of the articles attached to a lady's dress, the 

 Birds and Insects. The cawing rookis the smallestof the crow tribe. He is a true insect-destroyer. The cornix, or real crow,v/ill kill youn

 In the Midst of Life we are in Death. A very singular occurrence was noticed in the 10th Massachusetts regiment at the siege of Petersburg.

 The Future. Prognostications are a notable proof of the wild curiosity of our nature, grasping at and anticipating future things, as if we 

 Poverty. Povertyis, except where there is an actual want of food and raiment, a thing much moreimaginary than real. The shame of poverty— t

 Seeing through Him. The Cure of St. Sulpice, Paris, wishing to induce the octagenarian millionaire, Samuel Bernard, to leave a large sum of

 A Choice Wind. Dean Ramsay, in his "Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character," relates this incident :— In one of our northern counties

 The English Guards at Waterloo. Captain Gronow says :— The Guards had what in modern battues is called a hot corner of it, and the greatest

 A Left-handedCompliment. "Iowe you one," said a withered old CSlebs to a lady the other night at a party. "For what?" said she. " " Why, fo

 Wedlock. The married man is like the bee, that fixes his hive, augments the world, benefits the republic, and by a daily diligence, without

 Sheridan at a Westminster Election. Mr. Timbs, in his " Wits and Humorists" relates the following anecdote:— Towards the close of the elect

 Too Much at Once. Lord Chesterfield one day, at an inn wherehe dined, complained very much that the plates and dishes were very dirty. The 

 An American Innkeeper. Old Rowe kept a hotel, where, as he used to say, you could get anything that was ever made to eat. One day in came a

 Thoughts on Reading. For general improvement, a man should read whatever hisimmediate inclination prompts him to ;though, to be sure, if a 

 Napoleon's Love for his Soldiers. "For a sovereign who has worn two crowns, Iam poor, my dear count," said Napoleon to Las Cases, at St. He

 Education of Children. In the education of children, there is nothing like alluring the appetites andaffection; otherwise youmake so many a

 Death— should it be feared ? Death is a part of life. It is nothing more than the negation of life. If life,therefore, be no general good, 

 Birth-Place of Newton. The clergyman of aparish, not thirty miles from Glasgow, a very old gentleman, and altogether of the old school, hav

 Definition of a Soldier. Dean Swift defined a soldier as a being hired to killin cold blood as many of his own species, who have never offe

 Hardly a Coat to his Back. Poor H ,the comedian, once so well known in the Manchester and Liverpool theatres, having called ina doctor duri

 How Dr.Johnson wooed. When Dr. Johnson asked the Widow Porter to be his wife,he told her candidly that he had no money, and that his uncle 

 The Republic of Letters Tom Hood suggested that the phrase "republic of letters" was hit upon to insinuate that, taking the whole lot of au

 The Pleasure of Paying. It removes that uneasiness whicha true spirit feels from dependence and obligation. It affords pleasure to the cred

 Classical Quotation by Ingoldsby. Ihappened, at dinner,says a writerinNotes andQueries, to sit next to the lamented gentleman so well known

 Ex Nihilo Nihil Fit. The following admirableriddle was quoted many years ago inNotes andQueries. The authorship of it seems to be involved 

 A ConditionalPrayer. At the timethat the war was raging on the Continent, an honest woman, who had a son in the army, was much concerned ab

 Napoleon's Hatredof Sir Hudson Lowe. ""Iunderstand," said Napoleon to one of his attendants, that this governorproposed an officer should e

 Chemical Diatribes. Chemists, natural philosophers, and mathematicians,are all of the genus irritabile;the first class especially are remar

 A Bill-sticker turned Actor. Bob Palmer, the comedian, had been originally a billsticker, which was pretty generally known among theatrical

 Solitude. Crowded towns and busy societies may delight the unthinking and the gay,but solitude is the best nurse of wisdom. In solitude the

 Division of Labour. First Paviour: "Bill, wat's diwision of labour, as they talksabout ?" SecondPaviour: "It meansyouheaves the rammer, and

 The Sick Minister. A venerable divine,who,in his day and generation, was remarkablefor his primitive and abstinent mode of life, at length 

 Chemical Analysis. A Scotch laird, on a market-day in Kilmarnock, went into a tavern with a friend, and ordered some whisky. The waiter, wh

 A Black "Nigger." A little boy one day ran to his father, and said, " O father! IVe just seen theblackest nigger that ever was!" "How black

 A Test of Memory. A gentleman had so bad a memory, and so circumscribed, that he scarce knew whathe read. A friend, knowing this, lent him 

 A Luxurious Campaigner. Captain Gronow, inhis "Reminiscences," relates asfollows of a luxury-loving officer :— He was surrounded by muletee

 An Advertisement. The following remarkable advertisement appeared in a newspaper recently:— " Poacher wanted. Wanted a thoroughly experienc

 Phrenology at Fault. After Professor Porson's death, his head was dissected, when, to the confusion of craniologists and the consolation of

 Gambling. It is possible that a wiseand goodman may be prevailed onto game; but it is impossible that a professed gamester should be a wise

 Rather too Fast. Abernethy, while canvassing for the office of surgeon "toSt.Bartholomew's Hospital,called upon arich grocer. "Isuppose,sir

 Anecdote of Lord Jeffrey. When the late Lord Jeffrey was an advocate, he occasionally paid Dumfries a professional visit. On one occasion,h

 A Witty Sentry. A lieutenantof the iothUnitedStates Infantry recently met with a sad rebuff at FortKearney. The lieutenant was promenading 

 Happiness. Happiness consists in the multiplicity of agreeable consciousness. A peasant has not a capacity for having equal happiness with 

 A Mot by an Ambassadress. Not very long ago, the Emperor Napoleon's carriagehorses took fright during a drive from Fontainebleau. They were

 Not Time Enough. A correspondent of a Nashville papertells a storyabout a person who was going to Chattanooga onthe railroad. When the trai

 An Editor Overcome. Newspaper people, says an Ameiican journalist, are proveibially temperate as wellas virtuous. We believe, however, one 

 Fishing in Scotch Lakes. We are indebted to Blackwood's Magazine for the following:— In passing the rivers Awe and Urchy we heardgreat comp

 Mirth. Harmless mirth is the best cordialagainst the consumption of the spirits : wherefore jesting is not unlawful,if it trespasseth not i

 Dr. Johnson on Punning. Iremember, many years ago, says a correspondent of Notes and Queries, reading an anecdote of Johnson's dislike to p

 Cobbett's Courtship. It is recorded in Chambers's "Book of Days," that while inNew Brunswick,Cobbettmet the girl whobecame his wife. He fir

 Letter-Writing. Who has not laughed at the story of the letter-writer, who concludes:"Iwould say more but for an impudent Irishman who is l

 Living in the Bye-Laws. Speaking of General Hinks, an American says :— "That he lives in spite of wounds that would kill another man, remin

 A Soldier'sExcuse for Declining a Duel. "What, you're afraid then !" "Yes,Iam— you're right; Iam afraid to sin, but not to fight. Ifear not

 The Grimaldi of Fashionable Life. Captain Gronow, in his " Reminiscences," says:— Colonel Mackinnon, commonly called "Dan," was an exceedin

 The Love of God. Could we with ink the ocean fill ; Were the whole earth of parchment made j Were every single stick a quill, And eveiy man

 An Amiable Young Lady. A Caledonian newspaper, in an obituay of a young lady, who lately died, closed by saying, "She had an amiable temper

 The Journey of Life. Human life is the journey of a day; we rise in the morning of youth,full of vigour,and full of expectation; we set for

 Napoleon's Indifference to Orthography. As showing Bonaparte's carelessness as to correctness in writingand spelling,Las Cases says :— " On

 A Means of Livelihood. "The most winning player Iever knew," says Sir E.B. Lytton, "was a good,but not a first-rateplayer, and, playing sma

 A Lawyer's Charity. A poor Irish barrister, who had more brains than briefs, had,from too social habits,lost his practice, and, by-and-by, 

 How Singers are Paid. Malibran, at Drury Lane, under Bunn's management, received Ł150 each night. The sameprice was paid to Lablache for tw

 An Incident of the American War. During General Birney's raid through Florida, a bright little girl was found alone at one house, her paren

 Yankee Notions. Boasting of a visit he had paid to the Queen at Windsor, a Yankee clinched his remarks by declaring— " I should have been i

 An Englishman's Blunders. Among the many English (says Captain Gronow, in his "Reminiscences,") whovisitedParis in 18 15, was Alderman Wood

 Proof against Headache. An elderly gentleman, travelling in a stage-coach, was amused by the constant fire of words kept up between two lad

 An Appropriate Toast At an election dinner at Kidderminster— a place celebrated for its manufacture of carpets— this toast was proposed by 

 Dr. Johnson's Reflections on Ranelagh. As Xerxes wept when he viewed his immense army, and considered that not one of that multitude wouldb

 A Witty Reply. A barrister came into court one day with his wig all awry, which caused a general titter amongst his brother lawyers and the

 A Yankee Stake-Holder. An individual at the races was staggering about the track with more liquor than hecould carry. "Hallo, what's the ma

 An Ingenuous Reply. A lady at , whose friends had arrived unexpectedly, got up an impromptu dinner party, and wascompelled to send to the n

 A Regular Man. A little time ago a landlord,who was talkingboastingly about his customers, said, "Mr is the mostregular customer Ihave; he 

 The Cart before the Horse. De Quincey says— If once a man indulges himself in murder,vey soon he conies to think little of robbing ; and fr

 A Joke of Dr. Goodall's. Captain Gronow,speaking ofDr. Goodall,says— This gentleman was proverbially fond of punning. About the same time t

 A Slight Alteration. Cowper's celebrated line— "England! with all thy faults, Ilove thee still," was thus parodied by a whisky-loving Irish

 A Polite Carpenter. A county carpenter havingneglected to make a gibbet (which was orderedby the executioner), on theground that he had not

 Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficulties. During a considerable partof the time in which Savage wasemployeduponhis tragedy of Sir Thomas Ove

 Death a Leveller. Let not thegrandeur of any man's station render him proud and wilful; but let him remember, when he is surrounded with a 

 Napoleon'sMode of Living at St.Helena. Describing the food which was placed on his table to his physician, Dr. Antommarchi, he said— Physic

 Which is the Master ? A Scottish minister, being one day engagedin visiting some members of his flock, cameto the doorof a house where his 

 The Modesty of Greatness. There is, among the records of Newton, a sentence in the spirit of Shakspeare :— "Idon't know whatImay seem to th

 The Married State. Marriage is not commonly unhappy, but as life is unhappy; and most of those who complain of connubial miseries have as m

 Lord Byron. Captain Gronow,speaking of Lord Byron, says— His professed dislike to seeing women eat was found out to arise solely "from the 

 The Bitterness of Distress. Nothing so powerfully calls home the mind as distress. The tense fibre then relaxes; the soul retires to itself

 A Duellist. When the celebratedduellist,Fighting Fitzgerald, was in Paris, the English ambassador introducedhim to the French king; prior t

 Abernethy "Floored." Thefollowing anecdote is toldof the celebratedsurgeon, Mr. Abernethy:— One day, during an examination of a clase ofstu

 Suett the Actor. A gendeman called one evening to see Suett the comedian at the stage-door of the theatreat which the actor was engaged. Su

 General Wolfe. Chambers's "Book of Days" records that when, in 1759, Pitt intrusted General Wolfe with the expedition against Quebec, on th

 An Irish Debt, The late Sir Walter Scott, meeting an Irish beggar in the street,who importunedhim for sixpence, the then Great Unknown not 

 Colonel Kelly and his Blacking. Among the odd charactersIhave met with (says Captain Gronow),Ido not recollect any onemore eccentric than t

 A Conundrum. Why is a badly-conducted hotel likea fiddle? Because it's a vile inn.  Unknown  

 Evils of Gaming, Avoid gaming ; for among many other evils which attend it, are these:— Loss of time; loss of reputation ; loss of health; 

 Restrainton Pleasure. Put this restriction on your pleasures— Be cautious that they injure no being which has life.  Unknown  

 Evils of War. A wiseminister would rather preserve peace than gain a victoy ; because he knows that even the most successful war leaves nat

 An Americanism. "You, Sambo, you have fed the pigs?" "Yes, massa, me fed 'um," replied Sambo. " " Didyou count them?" Yes, massa, me count 

 Pride. Like the magnet, it constantly points to one object— self; but, unlike the magnet, it has no attractive pole, but at all points repe

 Lely the Painter. Sir William Lely had agreed for the price of a portrait he was to draw for a rich London alderman, who was not indebted t

 A ShrewdIrishman. An Irish car-driver having driven a gentleman a long stage during a storm of rain, the gentleman said to him, "Paddy, are

 An Incident in the American War. Two females, dressedin Federal uniform, werebrought to the Irving Block from the front. They werearrested 

 Help the Helpless. No character is more glorious, none more attractive of universal admiration and respect, than that of helping those who 

 Swift and his Barber. Dean Swift, whilst resident in a village wherehe had a living, was frequently shaved by a barber to whom he becamemuc

 The Value of aTrue Friend. A sure friend isbest known in an adverse state. We know not whom to trust till after trial. There are some that 

 A Mis-Deal. A celebrated Scotch divine had just risen up in the pulpit to lead the congregationin prayer,when agentleman in front of the ga

 A Witty Reveller. A whisky-drinkingIrishman wasbroughtbefore amagistrate named Porter charged with being drunk and disorderly. The magistra

 DUFREZ THE VoCALIST. When Duprez, the eminentFrench singer, wasengaged by the late Mr. Bunn for Drury Lane Theatre, a wit of the day wrote 

 Writing for the Future. The late Dr. Jamieson, the Scottish lexicographer, was vain of his literary reputation, and, like many others who k

 Obtain Knowledge. Knowledge will not be acquired without pains and application. It is troublesome and deep digging for pure waters; but whe

 Fame. Great minds had rather deserve contemporaneous applause, without obtainingit,thanobtain, withoutdeserving it; if it follow them, it i

 Palmer's Claret. Captain Gronow relatesthe following:— The patronage of the Prince Regent was considered essential, and, from a kindly feel

 An Irish Horse. A gendemanstaying at an hotelinDublin,hadordered dinner at a certain hour, and, afraid of being too late, he hired a cab, a

 A Scotch Query. A bluff, consequential gentleman from the south, with more beef on his bones than brain in his head, riding along the Hamil

 Moral Influence. In the autobiography of the Rev. AlexanderCarlyle is a remarkable story:— Dow, it is said, was a Scotch adventurer who had

 A Novel Sleeping-Berth. Thecrowded deck of an American packet.— A Californian to the skipper of ditto:"Ishould like to h"ave a sleeping-ber

 Eviland GoodInseparable. As in agriculture, he that canproduce the greatest crop is not the best farmer, but he that can effect it with the

 A Door-Scraper. Foote, being once annoyedby apoor fiddler "straining harsh discords " under his window, sent him a shilling, with a request

 Choice of Companions. Be very circumspect in the choice of your company: in the society of your equals, you mayenjoy pleasure ; in the soci

 Choice of Friends. In all societies it is advisable to associate, if possible, with the highest ; not that the highest are always the best,

 Music hath Charms. A lover of music havingbored a friend, who called on him, with a numberof sonatas and other pieces on the fiddle, observ

 Candour and Manners. Pitt was once canvassing for himself, when he came to a blacksmith's shop. " Sir," said he to the blacksmith, "will yo

 Hypocrites. Ifhypocrites go to hellby the road to heaven, we may carryon the metaphor, and add, that as all the virtues demandtheir respect

 LordNorbury as a Judgf.. Lord Norbury was celebrated equally for his wit and his severity as a criminal judge. At one time, as a special co

 Curious Fact. George the Third was one day standingbetween Lord Eldon and the Archbishop of Canterbuiy, Dr.Sutton. After a moment's pause i

 A Slight Mistake. An ignorant fellow, desirous of " showing off" in a company where the conversation was of a classical character, speaking

 The Latin Gerunds. Theodore Hook was one of a dinner-party where the conversation turned on the Trojan war. Then the peculiarities of the L

 A "Cute" Yankee. A western editor was recently requested to send his paper to a distant patron, provided he would take his pay in "trade." 

 A Flowery Sermon. A gentleman having attendeda country chapelat which a local preacher who was a baker officiated, was asked by a friend if

 Advice to Disputants. In holding an argument, be neither conceited nor choleric ; onedistempers your understanding,the other abuses your ju

 The Sleeping Beauty. Captain Gronow relates that, when Sir Lumley Skeffington, who had been a lion in his day— and whose spectacle, the " S

 A Tailor'sMotto. A tailor,having set up his carriage,asked Foote for a motto. " " There is one from Hamlet," said the wit, that will match 

 A King Outwitted. Soon after Lord Chesterfield came into the privy council, a place of great trust happened to become vacant, to which his 

 A Thankful Minister. The hat waspassed round in a certain American congregation for the purpose of taking up a collection. After it had mad

 Irish Wit. An Irish girl at play on Sunday being accosted by the priest, " Good morning, daughter of the Evil One," meekly replied, " Good 

 Education. Accustom a child as soon as it can speak to narrate his little experiences,his chapter of accidents; his griefs, his fears, his 

 Not in Haste. A clergyman in the north of Scotland, very homely in h"is address, chose for his text a passage in the Psalms, Isaid in my ha

 Truth. He that finds truth, without loving her, is like a bat, which, though it have eyes to discern that there is a sun, yet hath such evi

 An Intelligent Lord Mayor. A story is told of a Lord Mayor of London, who, hearing that a person of his acquaintance had had the small-pox 

 A Lady's Choice. A young American lady being askedby an enthusiastic politician which party she was most in favour of, replied that she pre

 Powerand Mercy. We aremost likeGod, when weare as willing to forgive as powerful to punish; and admirableare the virtues of him who,having 

 Anecdote of Lord Byron. ThreeVenetians, whom thelate Lord Byron brought withhim into this country, wereso dreadfully attacked "withophthalm

 A Curious Loan. "Isay, Jack," shoutedaSmithfield drovertohis companion, "these sheep vont move a bit— lend us a baik of your dog, vill you?

 A Shrewd Suggestion. A gentleman, being in company with the Earl ot Chatham, was asked by his lordship for his definition of wit. " Wit," h

 Anger. Of all passions, there is none so extravagantand outrageous as that of anger; other passions solicit and mislead us, but this runs a

 A Sailor's Prayer. When the British ships under Lord Nelson werebearingdownto attack the combined fleet off Trafalgar, the firstlieutenant 

 African Ants. Theseinsects sometimes set forwardin such multitudes that the wholeearth seems to be in motion. A corps of them once was seen

 The Irish on and off the Stage. M. Esquiros, the celebrated writer in the "Revue des Deux Mondes," says :— Colman was once in Dublin, when 

 A Gambler'sLoss. Major Brereton, notorious for his constant devotion to gaming, one day met Sheridan, whomhe had not seen for a long time. 

 Irish Wit. The following colloquy at cross purposes once took place between an agent and an Irish voter on the eve ofanelection:— "Youare a

 Pause before you are Angry. Itis said of Julius Cćsar, that, upon anyprovocation, he wouldrepeat the Roman alphabet before he suffered hims

 A Cautious Yankee. A Yankee story is told of the meeting of a joint-stock companyat which the chairmanproposed the customary vote of thanks

 A Nice Method of Raising the Wind. A smart personnamedFitch,advertisedveryextensively in all the New York papers, that anyperson who would 

 The Desire to Excel. This passion always chooses to move alone in a narrow sphere,wherenothingnobleor important canbeachieved, rather than 

 The Last Hours of Napoleon. On the 2d of May 182 Iit was evident that his end was near ; fever had set in, and his mind wandered. At interv

 The Last Charge at Waterloo. CaptainGronow,inhis "Reminiscences," referringto the last charge on this memorable day, says,— It was about fi

 Bunyan's Sarcasm, In Chambers's "Book of Days," we have this amusing anecdote :— A Quaker called upon Bunyan in gaol one day, with whathe p

 AvoidBad Company. Look upon vicious company as so manyengines planted against you by the devil, and accordingly fly from them as you would 

 OurPassions. While we labour to subdue our passions, we should take care not to extinguish them. Subduing our passions is disengaging ourse

 A Cunning Irishman. An Irishman,inpassing through the streets, picked up a light guinea, which he was obliged to sell for eighteen shilling

 Sleeping Cars on American Railways. Each car can conveniently furnish beds to 48 persons, and seat 56. Fromthe floor to the top the dormito

 A Soldierly Address. Mr Kinglake,speaking of thelate LordClyde, says :— Before the action had begun, and whilst his men were still in colum

 A Schoolboy's Wit. A schoolboy, going out of the playground withoutleave, one of his masters called after him, and inquired where he was go

 Cooke and Kemble. These great actors, playing in the Gamester, went through a sceneof the third act in the second. " We're wrong," said Coo

 Pitt's Travels. Few men of note have travelled less than Mr. Pitt. His foreign tours were limited to six weeks— one autumn in France. He wa

 Bonaparte as a Schoolboy. The following is a copy of the certificate given to the great Napoleon on leaving school. It was handed to him fo

 An Egyptian Custom. The Egyptians, at their feasts, to prevent excess on the part of the company,wereaccustomedto place a skeleton in a con

 Universal Love. Fenelon was accustomed to say, «  Ilove my family better than myself ; my country better than my family ; and mankind bette

 A Royal Pun When a noble Admiral of the White, well known for his gallant spirit, gentlemanly manners, and real goodness of heart, was intr

 Importance of Knowledge. Alexander the Great had such extraordinary value and esteem for knowledge and learning, that he used to say he was

 Louis the Twelfth. The words of Louis XII. of France showed a great and noble mind, when, being advised to punish those who hadwrongedhimbe

 Sincerity. It wasasaying of Seneca— Solive withmen, as if Goq saw you; so speak to God, as if men heard you;regulate your actions by this g

 Wilson the Vocalist. A paragraphinan Edinburghpaperannounced thatMr. Wilson, the celebratedvocalist,had met with a serious accident by the 

 Valueof Contentment. A contented mind is the greatest blessing a man can enjoy in this world; and if, in the present life, his happiness ar

 Sydney Smith. Mr. Timbs,in his " Wits and Humourists," speaking of Sydney Smith, says— Heused to relate an odd contretemps that once happen

 Laugh and Grow Fat. Democritus, who was always laughing, livedone hundred and nine years ; Heraclitus, who never ceased crying, only sixty.

 Shaving a Monkey. A coxcomb once said to a barber's boy, "Did you ever shave a monkey?" "Why, no sir," replied the boy, " never; but if you

 Pursuit of Glory. The road to glory wouldcease to be arduous if it were triteandtrodden;andgreatminds must bereadynot only to take opportun

 Wit— Its Characteristics. Thereis no quality of the mind, nor of the body, that so instantaneously and irresistibly captivates, as wit. The

 Napoleon and the Soldier. Some time after Napoleon had attained the rank of captain, a soldier one day approached him and showed him his co

 A Cockney Printer. Mr. Wilson, the eminent Scotch vocalist, got back from his cockney printer on one occasion aproof of his programme for c

 Penalty of YouthfulExcess. The excesses of our youth,are draftsupon our oldage, payable, with interest, about thirty years after date.  

 Endurance of a GoodName. Honours,monuments, and all the works of vanity and ambition, are demolished and destroyed by the unsparing hand of

 Knowledge of Men and the World. We did not make the world, we may mend it, and must live in it. We shall find that it abounds with fools, w

 The Charms of Virtue. There is but one pursuit inlife which it is inthe power of all to follow, andof all to attain. Itis subject to no dis

 Thirst for Power. In theheat andfrenzy of the French Revolution, the contentions for place and power never sustained the smallestdiminution

 Anecdote of LordEldon. Lord Chancellor Eldon, who was well known by the nickname of " OldBags," in one of his shooting excursions, unexpect

 Bonaparte and his Landlady. During part of the time he was quartered at Auxonne, Bonaparte lodged at the house of a barber, to whose wife h

 An Ungallant Reply. A lady of an irascible temper asked George Selwyn why woman was made out of the rib of man. "Indeed, Ican't say," was h

 Nelson on the Navy. Earl Stanhope in his life of Pitt, thus writesof Nelson: Nelson at Merton was for one or two weeks at rest, or rather h

 A Yankee Apology. An American newspaper contains the following retractation, which would probably be not quite satisfactory to the offended

 Sharp enough Already. A solicitor who had a remarkably long and pointed nose, once told a lady, that if she did not immediately settle a ma

 Power— Its Value. Power, like the diamond, dazzles the beholder, andalso the wearer; it dignifies meanness;itmagnifies littleness; to whati

 Virtue. Virtue, without talent, is a coat of mail without a sword; it may,indeed, defend the wearer,but will not enable him to protect his 

 Poets and their Works. All poetspretend to writeforimmortality, but the whole tribe have no objection to presentpayandpresentpraise. But Lo

 Vicious Habits. They areso great a stain to human nature,and so odious in themselves, that every person actuated by proper feelings would a

 Duration of Life. Buffon, the naturalist,makes the following calculations on the durability of life :— From the best calculations, only one

 Avoid Defamation. Never speak ill of any man; if you malign a wise and goodman, it is impious ; and it is betterto give a bad man your pray

 A Yankee Counsel. An American newspaper has the following defence, made to an action by a Yankee barrister:— "There are three points in the

 Napoleon at Arcola. The passage of the bridge of Arcola may be esteemed the height of boldness. Thousands of men and musketry served to def

 Avarice and Ambition. These vices are the two elements that enter into the composition of most of the crimes that are committed. Ambitionis

 Meeting a Difficulty. A gentleman called one day on a broker to get a bill discounted. The broker looked at the acceptance, and started som

 Where a Cheese should be Cut. A gentleman dining with a friend, a large Cheshire cheese,uncut, was brought to the table. " Where shall Icut

 Yankee Sublimity. A New York paper says :— As winged lightnings dart from the heavens when the Eternal has unbarred their bolts,so does a f

 Bonaparte and his Mameluke. While he was in Egvpt, Napoleon had a Mameluke attendant upon him, who was particularly att;iched to him, seldo

 Selwyn and his Horse. "How does your new horse answer?" said the late Duke of Cumberland to George Selwyn. "Iregret to say that Icannot inf

 A Brave Woman. Madame Verdier, a very beautiful and accomplished Italianlady,wife of the gallantgeneral whoparticularly distinguished himse

 Avarice. Itstarves itskeeper to surfeit those who wish him dead; and makes him submit to more mortifications to lose heaven, than the marty

 A Damp Joke. A gentleman having fallen into the river Exe,in Devonshire, relating it to a friend, said, "You will supposeIwas pretty wet ?"

 A Minister's Apology. Rowland Hill was greatly annoyed when there happened to be any noise in his chapel, to divert the attention of his he

 Anecdote of Sheridan. When Sheridan wasin distress, in early life,one of his recourses was that of writing for the fugitive publications of

 Blessing of a Clear Conscience. A good conscience is more to be desired than all the riches of the East. How sweet are the slumbers of him 

 Macklin's Last Appearance. The veteran Macklin was announced for "Shylock " when he was at least ninety-three ; some accounts said several 

 Health and Long Life. Whether long life be a blessing or not God alone can determine, whoalone knows what length it is like to run, and how

 The Elements of Success. It was a saying of Aristotle, that to become an able man in anyprofession whatever, three things are necessary — n

 Origin of "The Devil's Own." George III. (says Earl Stanhope in his Life of Pitt) was in high health and excellent spirits. When the "Templ

 Noble-mindedness. He that is truly noble-minded has the same concern for his own fortune that every wise man should have, and the same rega

 Ambition. Itis to the mind what the cap is to the falcon; itblinds us first, and then compels us to tower,byreason of our blindness. But, a

 How to get a Fever. The old divine, Jeremy Taylor, used to observe, that when any one tempted him to drink to excess, he was civilly invite

 Anecdote of King Charles II. King Charles II. possessed the reputation of being skilled innaval architecture. Being once at Chatham, to vie

 The Bible and the Sword. We should justly ridicule a general, who, justbefore an action, should suddenly disarm his men, and, putting into 

 Inconsistency of Man. Men will wrangle for religion; write for it ; fight for it; die for it; anything but— live for it.  Unknown 
The Book of Humour, Wit & Wisdom. A manual of table-talk. [By L. C. Gent?]]
1880
2014-10-30 16:26:17.732308


 How to Use a Friend. Make use of a friend with great caution and discretion: trust him not before you know him thoroughly; for many that pr

 Plain Speaking. When called upon by Louis XIII. to give his opinion in some great emergency,the Duke of Sully observed the favourites of th

 An Independent Sailor. One day as a noble naval commander, who is a strict disciplinarian, was walking through the streets of Portsmouth, h

 The Duty of Man. Nature bids me love myself, and hate every one that injures me ; reason bids me love my friends, and hate my enemies; reli

 Napoleon's Presence of Mind. While Napoleon was visiting a battery, an artilleryman was shot at the gun which he was serving. As soon as he

 Curious Weather. A traveller at a Pennsylvanian hotel got out of his bed one night to see what sort of weather it was, but instead of looki

 Industry Ennobles. It is a most noble and commendabledesign of children of mean descent, by their industry to become men of virtue and posi

 Invention of the Guillotine. The man whose name has acquired so painful a celebrity, by being assimilated to his invention, was M. Guilloti

 A Candid Judge. Judge T ,who was not particularly famous for his brilliancy, on one of his country circuits, had to try a man for stealing 

 Anecdotes of the Emperor Napoleoh, Mr. Lumley, in his " Reminiscences of the Opera," says— " With the future Emperor of France, when an exi

 Love and Jealousy. Love mayexist withoutjealousy,although this israre ; but jealousy may exist without love, and this is common; for jealou

 Le Petit Caporal. Las Cases, thebiographer of Napoleon Bonaparte, thus describes the origin of the title Le Petit Caporal:— A singular cust

 A PoliteSoldier. An officer in battle happening to stoop his head, a cannon-ball passed completely over it, and took off the head of a sold

 A Philosopher's Reproof. Zeno, the philosopher,having remonstrated with certain of his pupils for their extravagance, theyexcused themselve

 HOW TO BEAR THE ILLS OF LlFE. There are three modes of bearing the ills of life:by indifference, whichis the most common; by philosophy, wh

 Bonaparte's Marriage with Josefhine. Bonaparte was but twenty-six years of age when he married the widowof Viscount de Beauharnois. This ev

 Medical and LegalQuacks. Pettifoggers in law,and empyrics in medicine, whether their patients lose or save their property,or their lives, t

 Heroism in Humble Life. In the obscurity of retirement, amid the squalid poverty andrevolting privations of a cottage, scenes of magnanimit

 Incident in the Life of a Soldier. A Scotch Highlander was taken prisoner by a tribe of Indians; his life was about to be sacrificed, when 

 Bonaparte as a Litterateur. At the age of seventeen he gained the prize offered by the Academy of Lyons on the following subject:— "What ar

 Experience and Hope. Hope is a prodigal young heir, and experience is his banker; but his drafts are seldom honoured,since there is often a

 Scarcity of Goodand Great Men. As in literature we shall find many things that are true, and some things that are new, but very few things 

 Prosperity and Adversity. The virtue of prosperity is temperance; the virtue of adversity is fortitude, which in mortals is the more heroic

 Advice to Orators. In answering an opponent, arrange your ideas, but not your words; consider in what points things that resemble differ, a

 Who Began It? A dog was accidently present during Divine service in a Scotch kirk, where the worthy minister was in the fuibit of speaking 

 Toleration of the Priesthood. That country where the clergyhave the most influence, and use it with the most moderation, is England.  Un

 The Bishop's Luggage. An amusing blunder occurred one day at the Norwich Railway Station. The Bishop of ,and Mr. and Mrs. HowardPaul werepa

 The Other Side. One story, says an American paper, is good until another is told, andthe advice to "hear both sides" is old but always good

 A Scottish Domestic. Dean Ramsay, speaking of an eccentric old Scottish domestic servant, says, "One day he sent up a roast goose for dinne

 A Text for Monarchs, There is one passage in the Scriptures to which all the potentates of Europe seem to have given their unanimous assent

 An Innocent Reply. A lady, meeting a girl who had lately left her service, i"nquired, "Well, Maiy, where do you live now?" Please, ma'am, I

 Importance of Perfection. That writer who aspires to immortality, should imitate the sculptor, if he wouldmake the labours of the pen as du

 Are You Answeredr A pompous fellow made a very inadequate offer for a valuable property; and calling the next day for an answer, inquired o

 Pitt and the Volunteers. The following anecdote isrecorded in Lord Stanhope's Life of Pitt :— Apleasantry of Pitt has been preserved by tra

 The Law and the Sword. In all governments, there must of necessity be both the law and the sword; laws without arms would give us rot liber

 The Shrewdness of Imbeciles It is recordedin Dean Ramsay's amusing "Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character," that a wellknown idiot, 

 Dissimulation If dissimulation is ever to be pardoned, it is that which men have recourse to, in order to obtain situations which may enlar

 Priestly Pride. The most ridiculous of all animalsis a proud priest; he cannot use his own tools without cutting his own singers.  Unkno

 Bonaparte's Mother. She was one of the most beautiful womenof the day and was celebrated throughout Corsica. Paoli,in the time of his power

 Woman's Pleasure and Duty. Pleasure is to woman what the sun is to the flower :if moderately enjoyed, it beautifies, it refreshes, and it i

 Beauty of Charity. Did universal charity prevail, earth would be a heaven, and hell a fable.  Unknown  

 Woman's Wit. It has been said, that to excel them in wit,is a thing the men find is the most difficult to pardon in the women. This feeling

 Happiness and Freedom in England. England, with a criminal code the most bloody, anda civil code the most expensive inEurope, can, notwiths

 Repartee. It is perfect, when it effects its purpose with a double edge. Repartee is the highest order of wit,as it bespeaks the coolest ye

 An Ingenious Retort. A man who knows the world, will not only make the most of every thing he does know,but of many things he does not know

 Throw Physic to the Dogs. A certain young clergyman, modest almost to bashfulness, was once asked by a country apothecary, of a contrary ch

 The Duke of Wellington's Recollectionsof Pitt. Idid not think (said the Duke in conversation, as recorded in Lord Stanhope's Life of Pitt) 

 Ars Celare Artem. To excel others is a proof of talent; but to know when to conceal that superiority, is a greater proof of prudence. The c

 A Literary Dinner. I—n Lumley's "Reminiscences of the Opera," he says, While speaking of the press, a literary dinner occurs to my memory w

 Napoleon's Ancestors. On the paternal side he was descended from one of the most illustrious families of Florence. Civil dissension occasio

 Sir DavidBaird'sMother. Dean Ramsay, in his "Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character," relates, that when Mrs.Baird received the news 

 Vanity of Life. How small a portion of our life it is that we really enjoy. In youth we are looking forward to things that are to come; in 

 Self-Command. He who commandshimself, commands the worldtoo ; and the more authority youhave overothers, the more commandyou will have over

 An Idiot'sShrewdness. DeanRamsay,inhis "Reminiscences," relates thefollowing anecdote. A clergyman in the north of Scotland, on coming into

 A Witty Bishop. A gentleman once interceded with a certain bishop for a minister who was much in debt, and who had, on more than one occasi

 Conscientious Advocates. A faithful advocate can never sit without clients. Nor do Ibelieve that any man could loseby itin the end that wou

 Importance of Costume. It is not every man that can afford to wear a shabby coat;and worldly wisdom dictates to her disciples the propriety

 Shakspere the GreatestPoet. All the poets are indebted more or less to those who have gone before them; even Homer's originality has been q

 Milton and his Wife. Milton, when blind, married a shrewish wife. A friend,desirous of complimenting the poet on his choice, termedhis spou

 A Matter-of-Fact Preacher. Dean Ramsay, inhis "Reminiscences," records the soll— owinganecdote of a minister in the north of Scotland: A mi

 Papal and Imperial Rome. Imperial Rome governedthe bodies of men, but didnot extendher empire farther. Papal Romeimprovedupon imperial : sh

 Folly of Scepticism. As the man of pleasure,by a vain attempt to be more happy than any man can be, is often more miserable than most men a

 Contentmentinsures Happiness. Agar said, "Give me neither poverty nor riches," and this willever be the prayer of the wise. Our incomes sho

 A Clergyman and his Prompter. A clergyman reading the burial-service over an Irish corpse, forgotthe sex of the deceased. Comingto that par

 Infatuation of the Gambler. The gamester, if he die a martyr to his profession, is doubly ruined. He adds his soul to every other loss, and

 A Sharp Remark on 'Change. Two Liverpool merchants conversing about business matters one day on 'Change, one of them remarkedon the badness

 Value of Literature. The manuscript of "Robinson Crusoe" was offered to nearly all the publishers before one could be found bold enoughto p

 Bear no Malice. He that lets the sun go down upon his wrath, and goes angry to bed, is like to have the devil for his bedfellow.  Unknow

 Quick Shaving— Colonel Ellison. Captain Gronow,in his Memoirs,says :— About twelve o'clock, on the secondday after thebattle of Waterloo, w

 Prodigality and anEvil Conscience. Tis as disagreeable to a prodigal to keep an account of his expenses, as it is for a sinner to examine h

 Evil of Drunkenness All the crimes on earth do not destroy so many of the human race,noralienate so muchpropertyas drunkenness.  Unknown

 A Sharp Rejoinder. A lady was one day walking through the streets of London, when the tray of a butcher's boy came in contact with her, and

 Temperance. Epicurus recommends temperance to us, if it were for nothing else but the very pleasure of it; 'tis the glory of a man who hath

 Importance of Education. Quintilian recommendsall parents properly to educate their children, advising them to train their offspring carefu

 Vanity of Riches The more experience we have of the world, themore that experience should show us how little is in the power of riches; for

 A Garrulous Lady. Tom Hood,on hearing the piety of a very loquacious lady spoken of, said, "Yes, she is well known for her mag-piety."  

 Desire for Long Life, Thereappears to exista greater desire to live long than to live well! Measure by man's desires, he cannot live long e

 The Despatch that never came. The following incidentin the Franco-Italian waragainst the Austrians,is recordedin BlackwoocPs Magazine; — On

 A Double Fare. A gentleman resident in Edinburgh, whose personal dimensions were somewhat similar to those of Falstaff, was in the habit, w

 Faith and Works. A worthy son of the church in the West Highlands, who had peculiar notions touching the " full assurance of faith," having

 Leonidas at Thermopylć. Leonidas,king of Sparta, when defending Thermopylć against the Persian host under Xerxes, was told by one of his so

 Don't meet SorrowHalf-way. Fear not that which cannot be avoided. It is extreme folly to make yourself miserablebefore your time, or to fea

 Advice to the Married. As a great part of the uneasiness of matrimony arises from mere trifles, it would be wise in every young m—arried ma

 Narrow-mindedPeople. It is with narrow-souled people as with narrow-necked bottles :the less they have inthem, the more noise they make inp

 Advantage of Learning. Learning is the chief ornament andjewel of man's life, and withoutit no man can attain to any preferment in the comm

 Servants. If you keep one servant, your work is done ; if you keep two, it is half done; and if you keep three, you may do it yourself. 

 A Slight Misapprehension. A happy pair, in smart array, Byholy church united, FromLondon town, in open shay, Set off, bylove incited. The d

 Inquisitiveness. Inquisitive people are the funnels of conversation— they donot take in anything for their own use, butmerely to pass it to

 Evils of Pride. Proud men have no friends ; neither in prosperity, because they know nobody, nor in adversity, because then nobody knows th

 Definition of Wealth. He is rich whose income is more than his expenses; and he ispoor whose expenses exceedhis income.  Unknown  

 Sharp for the Doctor. A gentleman oncerallying a physician on the inefficacy of his prescriptions, the doctor said he defied any of his pat

 Worldly Friends. When Isee (says Warwick in his "Spare Minutes") leaves drop from their trees in the beginning of autumn, just such, think 

 A Courageous Nigger. A nigger, on being charged by his master with being afraid of work,replied, "No,massa, no 'fraid of work; I'll lie dow

 "The Apparel oft proclaims the Man." A man ought in his clothes to conform something to those that he converses with, to the custom of the 

 A Schoolboy Catechised. A schoolboy undergoing an examination, being asked who was the wickedestman, replied, "Moses;because he broke all t

 Definition of Wit. Like every other power wit has its -boundaries. Its success depends on the aptitude of others to receive impressions ; a

 Origin of the Term "Spinster." Formerly it was a custom that a girl should not get married until she had spun herself a set of body and tab

 Pursuit of Wealth. The world would be more happy if persons gave up more time to an intercourse of friendship. But money engrossesall our d

 Solon the Lawgiver. Solon being asked, why, amongst his personal laws, tliere wasnot one against personal affronts ? answered, He could not

 Prepare for Adversity. In the height of your prosperity be prepared for adversity, but fear it not. Ifit come not, you are possessed of the

 Hope. Hope is a flatterer,but the most upright of all parasites, for she frequents the poor man's hut as well as the palace of his superior

 Drunkenness. It werebetter for a man to be subject to any vice, than to drunkenness ; for all other vanities and sins may be recovered,but 

 AvoidLoquacity. Accustom not yourself to speaking overmuch, and before you speak, think; let not your tongue run, before reason and judgmen

 Power of the Pen. The fangs of a bear, and the tusks of a wild boar, do not bite worse, and make deeper gashes, thana goosequill sometimes:

 A Reminder. A person asking a wit if the tolling of a bell did not remindhim of his latterend, wasanswered, "No;but the rope puts me in min

 A ModelServant. A gentleman once advertised for a valet who did not mindconfinement, and who had lived some time in his last place. He was 

 The Student— the Good he Confers. He that is wellemployed in his study, though he may seem to do nothing, does the greatest things yet of a

 Yankee Sharpness. A Yankeepedlar in his cart, overtaking another of his class, was addressed, "Hallo, what do you carry?" "Drugs and medici

 Choice of Friends. There are two requisite qualities in the choice of a friend:he must be both a sensible and an honest man; for fools and 

 The Last Days of Malibran. The followinginteresting account of the last days ot Madame Malibran de Beriot appears in "Notes and Queries":— 

 Life and Death. While we are reasoning concerning life, life is gone; and death, though perhaps they receive him differently, yet treats al

 Value of Reputation. Be careful of your reputation;if that be once lost, you are,like a cancelled writing,valueless.  Unknown  

 Laconic Correspondence. Thelwall,when about to be tried for treason, wrote to Mr. Erskine the following epistle: "Ishall plead my own cause

 Love of Truth with the Athenians. The virtue of the ancient Athenians is veiy remarkable in the case of Euripides. This great tragic poet, 

 Death the Comforter. There are a great many miseries which nothing but death can give relief to. This puts an end to the sorrows of the aff

 Woman in Domestic Life. The chief part of a woman's characteris contained in domestic life ;— first,her piety towardsGod: and next in the d

 Men of Sense the best Husbands. The silliest fellowsare ingeneral the worst of husbands, and it maybe asserted as a fact, that a man of sen

 An Irishman'sLetter. An Irishman called at the General Post-Office to inquire if there were any letters for him. He was asked for his name.

 A True Prophet. Colonel George Hanger,in his Autobiography, written in 1801, thus prophesies of the future of America. The realization of h

 A Heroic Reply. When Xerxes wrote to Leonidas, the Spartan hero, asking him to surrender his arms, the reply he obtained was this briefone—

 Yankee Froth. The beer in Rhode Island is said to be so strong that it requires threementoblow the headoff apot of porter, and they must be

 How to CultivateMemory. The best way to remember a thing is thoroughly to understand it, and often to recal it to mind. Byreading continual

 How to Converse. In conversation, men should not talk to please themselves, but those that hear them. Were this rule generally observed, it

 A Hint from the Gallery. A comedian was once performing at one of the Dublin theatres in a dirty pair of white duck trousers. A lad in the 

 Hints to Emigrants. An acquaintance of a certain Scotch bailie made a grievous complaint to himone day of the hard times, and the impossibi

 Cumberland and Sheridan. Cumberland, the play-writer, was askedwhathe thought of Sheridan's comedy," The School for Scandal." He p"ronounce

 The Glory of Forgiveness. Pardon to one who has injured us is the most glorious revenge. Cicero commended Cćsar more for pardoning Metullus

 A Sharp Editor. A subscriber to an American newspaper writes to the editor thus: "I don't want your paper any longer." To which the editor 

 An Irishman's Ready Wit, An Irish officer in the French service solicited Louis the Fourteenth for somefavour for a friend. Theking, being 

 A ProverbAltered. "Idleness covers a man with rags," says the proverb. An Irish schoolmaster, thinking to improve on this, wrote a copy for

 The Value of Wisdom. It wasremarkedby Seneca,that a wiseman is provided for occurrences of every kind: the good he controls, the bad he van

 Rabelais and the Doctors. When Rabelais was on his death-bed, a consultation of physicians was called. "Pray," said the dying wit to the do

 The Heroism of Patience. To endurepresent evils with patience and forbearance, and wait for expected good with long-suffering, is equally t

 Value of Friendship. True friendship is one of the greatest blessings upon earth :it makes the cares and anxieties of life sit easy ; provi

 Dr. Johnson and his Publisher. When Johnson had completedhisDictionary, thedelay of which had quite exhausted the patience of Millar, the b

 The Voiceof Conscience. The voice of conscience is so delicate, that it is easy to stifle it;but it is also so clear, that itis impossible 

 Duties of an Instructor A tutor should not be continually thundering instruction into the ears of his pupil, as if he were pouring it throu

 Periods of Life— their Characteristics. The prerogative of infancy is innocency ; of childhood, reverence;of manhood,maturity; and of oldag

 Pedantry and Pedants. A man who has been brought up among books, and is able to talk of nothing else, is a veryindifferent companion, and w

 A Wife's Qualifications. There are three things which a good wife should resemble, and yet those three things she should not resemble. She 

 Good conferred by the Alchymists. The pursuit of alchymy is at an end. Yet surely to alchymy this right is due, that it may truly be compar

 A Paradox. Two friends were discussing that interesting event in French history, the VendeanRevolt, and the character of the Vendeanhero,He

